---
layout: research
title: Research
---

# Research Interests

## Outline: Molecular modeling package "GALAXY"

The ultimate goal of our research is to understand and to predict the functions
of biomolecules in atomic details with theoretical and computational methods.
Such research can also provide basic tools for the design of small molecules or
proteins that can contribute to promoting human health.

For such purposes, we have been developing a biomolecular modeling program
package GALAXY and a web server GalaxyWeb implementing the GALAXY methods[^1]
(click [here][webserver] to connect to the web server).

[^1]:
    J. Ko, H. Park, L. Heo, and C. Seok\*, "GalaxyWEB server for protein
    structure prediction and refinement", _Nucleic Acids Res._ 40 (W1),
    W294-W297 (2012).

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/research/galaxy_outline.png" %}

**GALAXY** is a software package for biomolecular modeling which consists of
core programs that perform basic modeling tasks such as protein structure
prediction, protein-ligand docking, and protein-protein docking and applied
programs aimed at more specific goals such as ligand binding site prediction or
protein homo-oligomeric state prediction. The GALAXY program package has been
designed to be modular, enabling convenient addition of new programs in the
future.

The philosophy underlying the GALAXY development is to provide more
"<ins>practically useful</ins>" information to experimentalists, such as more
"<ins>reliable</ins>" model structures, by fusion of available tools and
knowledge in diverse disciplines such as chemistry, physics, computer science,
or bioinformatics. GALAXY currently utilizes various scoring functions (e.g.
molecular mechanics, implicit solvation models, statistical scores) and sampling
techniques (e.g. molecular dynamics, genetic algorithm, Monte Carlo simulation,
conformational space annealing) to achieve the best performance in each modeling
task.

## Protein Structure Prediction

### Template-based modeling in CASP experiments

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/research/CASP9result.png" %}

The CASP (Critical Assessment of the techniques for protein Structure
Prediction) experiment is a community-wide protein structure prediction
competition in which more than 100 groups from various countries test their
prediction methods. In our first participation in CASP (CASP9, 2010), our
automated prediction server **"Seok-server"** (based on the "GalaxyTBM"
method[^2]) was evaluated to be **"among the top six servers"** in the
template-based modeling (TBM) category (the largest and the most important
category in CASP) according to the official assessment by the CASP organizers.

[^2]:
    J. Ko, H. Park, and C. Seok\*, "GalaxyTBM", _BMC Bioinformatics_, 13, 198
    (2012).

### GalaxyTBM: Automated protein structure prediction

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/research/galaxyTBM.png" %}

Our stand-alone tool for template-based modeling is called "GalaxyTBM" [^2] (web
service available at [GalaxyWeb][galaxytbm]).  
GalaxyTBM combines a number of modules in the GALAXY package such as
GalaxyCassiopeia and GalaxyRefine and external programs for template detection
and sequence alignment.

<ins>One of the merits of GalaxyTBM is that it automatically refines unreliable
model regions in relatively short computation time.</ins> Unreliable loops,
termini, or side-chains are automatically detected and reconstructed by Galaxy
modules. The generated model structures are not only globally accurate but also
locally realistic. We keep improving the components of GalaxyTBM, both in the
performance and speed, to provide better services to users.

### Protein Loop Modeling

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/research/loop_algorithm.png" %}

Protein loop modeling is one of the areas of our specialty. Loop modeling is
applicable to the studies related to protein flexibility. All our loop modeling
methods have grounds on the loop closure algorithm called **"triaxial loop
closure"**[^3][^4]. For example, an ensemble of loop conformations can be
generated by **"FALC"**[^5][^6] that combines the loop closure and the local
structure sampling technique of fragment assembly (web service available at
[FALC web server][falc]). In the more advanced loop modeling method
**"GalaxyPS"**[^7][^8][^9] (web service available at [GalaxyWeb][galaxyloop],
loop closure is used as an elementary move set during global energy
optimization.

[^3]:
    E. A. Coutsias, C. Seok\*, M. P. Jacobson, and K. A. Dill, "A Kinematic View
    of Loop Closure", _J. Comput. Chem._ 25, 510 (2004).

[^4]:
    E. A. Coutsias\*, C. Seok, M. J. Wester, and K. A. Dill, "Resultants and
    Loop Closure", _Int. J. Quantum Chem._ 106, 176 (2006).

[^5]:
    J. Lee\*, D. Lee, H. Park, E. A. Coutsias, and C. Seok\*, "Protein loop
    modeling by using fragment assembly and analytical loop closure",
    _Proteins_, 78, 3428-3436 (2010).

[^6]:
    J. Ko, D. Lee, H. Park, E. A. Coutsias, J. Lee\*, and C. Seok\*, "The
    FALC-Loop web server for protein loop modeling", _Nucleic Acids Res._ 39,
    W210-W214 (2011).

[^7]:
    H. Park, J. Ko, K. Joo, J. Lee, C. Seok\*, and J. Lee\*, "Refinement of
    protein termini in template-based modeling using conformational space
    annealing", _Proteins_, 79, 2725-2734 (2011).

[^8]:
    H. Park and C. Seok\*, "Refinement of unreliable local regions in
    template-based protein models", _Proteins_, 80, 1974-1986 (2012).

[^9]: H. Park, G. R. Lee, and C. Seok\*, in preparation.

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/research/galaxyLoop.png" %}

In contrast to traditional loop modeling studies that focus primarily on
reconstructing loop structures in the experimentally resolved structures,
<ins>we are extending "GalaxyPS" loop modeling to a broader range of
problems.</ins> For example, even in perturbed crystal structures or structures
in different functional state, GalaxyPS produces accurate predictions in the
atomic level[^9][^10]. Therefore, this approach is expected to be more useful
for solving more practical problems.

[^10]:
    G. R. Lee, W. Shin, H. Park, S. Shin, and C. Seok\*, "Conformational
    sampling of flexible ligand-binding protein loops", _Bull. Korean Chem.
    Soc._ 33 (3), 770-774 (2012).

Loop modeling method can be further applied to improving template-based models.
A template-based model refinement tool called **"GalaxyRefine"** was developed
based on GalaxyPS. GalaxyRefine has been applied to CASP experiments since
CASP9, and the model quality improvement by GalaxyRefine has been demonstrated
in CASP9 TBM and refinement categories[^8].

## Protein-Ligand Docking

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/research/galaxyDock.png" %}

Another essential computational tool necessary for understanding protein
function is protein-ligand docking. A protein-ligand docking method predicts the
bound pose of the ligand and the binding affinity. Protein-ligand docking is one
of the essential tools for computer-aided drug discovery.

<ins>Our recent research in this area focuses on incorporating receptor
(protein) flexibility to our docking program **"GalaxyDock"**</ins>[^11][^12]. A
large number of proteins undergo conformational transitions to perform their
biochemical functions. Nevertheless, many ligand-docking tools that treat
proteins as rigid are used widely because of their efficiency and simplicity. A
more practical docking program (with less computational cost and more accurate
results) that considers receptor flexibility will bring a large impact to the
field.

[^11]:
    W. Shin, L. Heo, J. Lee, J. Ko, C. Seok\*, and J. Lee\*, "LigDockCSA:
    protein-ligand docking using conformational space annealing", _J. Comput.
    Chem._ 32 (15), 3226-3232, (2011).

[^12]:
    W. Shin and C. Seok\*, "GalaxyDock: Protein-ligand docking with flexible
    protein side-chains", submitted.

A related application method developed in our lab is the ligand binding site
prediction method **"GalaxySite"**[^13]. A key idea is to combine molecular
docking and information from similar proteins. Molecular docking allows more
precise prediction compared to other similarity-based methods. This method is
accessible at [GalaxyWeb][galaxysite].

[^13]:
    H. Lim, W. Shin, and C. Seok\*, "GalaxySite: Ligand binding site prediction
    using molecular docking", submitted.

## Protein-Protein Docking

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/research/galaxyPPdock.png" %}

We are also developing prediction methods for protein-protein interactions.
Prediction of protein- protein complex structure and binding affinity is crucial
for understanding and regulating protein functions. Our protein-protein docking
tool **"GalaxyPPDock"** is being tested in CAPRI[^14], a community- wide
protein-protein interaction prediction experiment (Critical Assessment of
PRedicted Interactions).

[^14]:
    Sarel J Fleishman _et al._ (H. Park, J. Ko, H. Lee, C. Seok),
    "Community-wide assessment of protein-interface modeling suggests
    improvements to design methodology", _J. Mol. Biol._ 414 (2), 289-302
    (2011).

Understanding interaction between symmetric protein chains is a topic related to
protein-protein docking. We developed a prediction method for homo-oligomer
structure called **"GalaxyGemini"**[^15]. GalaxyGemini makes use of known
quaternary structures of template oligomers, selected based on sequence
similarity and binding interface similarity to the target protein. Web service
for GalaxyGemini is available at [GalaxyWeb][galaxygemini].

[^15]:
    H. Lee, H. Park, J. Ko, and C. Seok\*, "GalaxyGemini: a web server for
    protein oligomer structure prediction based on similarity", submitted.

## Applications

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/research/guided_prediction.png" %}

The next stage in the GALAXY development is to develop more tools for practical
applications. The first type of application methods combine incomplete
experimental data obtained by structural biologists (which may not be very
useful as themselves) and structure prediction methods (which may not be
accurate enough as themselves) to produce high-accuracy protein model
structures.

For example, structure factors collected by X-ray crystallographers can be used
to guide structure prediction even when phase information is not available and
homology models are not accurate enough for molecular replacement. In addition,
chemical shift data collected from NMR spectroscopy can assist refinement of
template-based models. We are studying how to interpret and combine various
experimental data with GalaxyTBM.

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/research/galaxy_application.png" %}

The second type of application methods aim at obtaining insights into
conformational changes and molecular interactions involved in proteins of
pharmaceutical interests such as antibody proteins and G protein-coupled
receptors. Development of methods specialized for those targets by applying the
current loop modeling and ligand docking techniques are undergoing, for example,
modeling of intra- and extracellular loops of G protein-coupled receptors and
modeling of antibody loop structures in the complementarity determining region.

## References

[falc]: https://falc.seoklab.org
[webserver]: https://galaxy.seoklab.org
[galaxytbm]: https://galaxy.seoklab.org/cgi-bin/submit.cgi?type=TBM
[galaxyloop]: http://galaxy.seoklab.org/cgi-bin/submit.cgi?type=LOOP
[galaxysite]: http://galaxy.seoklab.org/cgi-bin/submit.cgi?type=SITE
[galaxygemini]: http://galaxy.seoklab.org/cgi-bin/submit.cgi?type=GEMINI
