---
layout: post
title: Taste Of Love First Impressions
subtitle: My favourite Kpop girl group 
categories: Kpop
tags: [Twice]
output: 
  html_document:
    includes:
       in_header: googleanalytics.html
---

 
### Taste Of Love Album Review 
 
#### Alcohol-Free
For the main song, I think the chorus was kind of lackluster in terms of lyrics. It might've been because I could not really relate to the lyrics at all. Furthermore, I didn't really feel the same "Twice" vibe from other Twice main songs they've released. However, I still like the vibe of the song, it is very summer-like, which is what they were going for. I think the Background music for the chorus was pretty caatchy though. One thing I really liked about the chorus was the choreography. I'm not sure why I like the choreography, I'm no dancer, but I think it's quite amusing to say the least. One thing to note is that at the end of the 1st chorus the way Jihyo sings "I'm drunk in you" is so fricken beautiful, that deep Jihyo voice man. In terms of the M/V, I think it shows how much of a visual group Twice is -- every member is really beautiful. I swear their visuals age like fine wine. I love Chaeyoung's pink hair, which reminds me of when she dyed her hair orange for Dance The Night Away. MY GIRL MINARI'S BLACK HAIR IS BACK TOO!! 
 
If I were to rate this song comparative to other Twice title tracks, I would give this a 7/10, since I feel like there isn't that "Twice" vibe from other songs, and the lyrics in my opinion are decent at most. 
 
#### First Time
This freakin masterpiece is made by God Jihyo herself. I love that Mina is starting the song with those falsettos. Furthermore, Nayeon and Jihyo showed off their vocal talents in the chorus with those falsettos as well. This song shows off Tzuyu's vocals really well (this is to all the haters that say she can't sing, you've been proven wrong for like the 200th time). Also, it shows off Sana's deep voice, which is absolutely charming. Nayeon's background vocals were absolutely beautiful as well. One thing is that I didn't hear Jeongyeon sing at all in this song (this is my first impression of the song so I could be wrong). Please be better to Jeongyeon, she deserves lines, she's an amazing vocalist :(. In terms of lyrics, I absolutely loved the lyrics. Furthermore, the background music was such a vibe too. "Strawberry kisses taste so good to me" - is Jihyo referencing MiChaeng ship? Or Strawberry song from Fancy album? I'm not quite sure, but I'm sure I'll figure out someday. With everything I've listed above, I would rate this song a 9.5/10. 
 
#### Scandal
Dahyun made this freakin song, and I love it too. I love the chorus, and I love how Minari is getting the chorus since typically she either gets the pre chorus or post chorus in most title tracks. Furthermore, her deep voice in the chorus is freakin good. I also love how Tzuyu gets the chorus as well, since typically the chorus in title tracks is Nayeon/Jihyo/Sana. Chaeyoung and Jeongyeon get the 2nd chorus! I love how the line distribution is so different, letting other members shine. The way Sana says "ayy" is fricken cute as heck. Not going to lie, I like how Jihyo and Nayeon got less parts since it lets the other Twice members show their talents, and this is coming from a Nayeon bias :p. The chorus and pre chorus is very catchy, I love it. However, in my opinion, the first 20 seconds of the song is kind of forgetful. I would rate this song an 8.5/10. 
 
#### Conversation
This song was made by Minatozaki Sana herself. I loved how Dahyun is getting some more vocal parts, and how Jeongyeon is getting more chorus parts again. One thing to note that I liked was that this song has a lower vocal range compared to most songs. In my opinion, compared to the other songs in this album, the chorus isn't as catchy. Furthermore, one thing I found weird or I guess I was used to was during the bridge of the song, I totally expected Nayeonie to be in the background vocals because judging by the vibe of the song, I thought it would happen. However, nothing came, which isn't necessarily a bad thing. In this song, there isn't one part of the song that stands out to me comparative to the other songs in this album. However, I still enjoyed the song, it's such a vibe and still enjoy it. With all this in mind, I would rate this song a 7/10
 
#### Baby Blue Love
This song was made by Nayeonie herself. I love Jeongyeon's vocals and Dahyun's vocals in the verse, it is very very beautiful. One thing I liked about this song more than any other song is that I like the slow build up to the chorus. The Nayeon/Jihyo chorus line is freaking killing me -- their vocals are so good and powerful. One thing that surprised me about this song is a Sana Momo rap. Momo didn't really surprise me, but Sana? Nevertheless, the rap part was short, but I loved it -- Sana should rap more. Mina and Jeongyeon vocals in the 2nd chorus are also so beautiful as well!! I love Mina's voice and I love Jeongyeon too (she definitely deserves more lines!). I also love how Dahyun has a more vocal central part for this, since I love Dahyun's singing voice too. Also, one thing to note, after the 2nd chorus, the way Jihyo says "baby blue love" is so breathtaking! In my opinion, the lyrics are fairly mediocre, and it's definitely a hype song, and something I might listen to when working out. With all of this in mind, I would rate the song an 8/10. 
 
#### SOS
This song was also made by Dahyun and as you can see, she is a super talented singer/songwriter. Something I like about this song is that Dahyun got more vocal parts in this, and not just vocal parts, some lower pitched vocal parts. Dahyun's deep voice in this sounds really really nice, I like it a lot. I wish Dahyun could sing more parts in the main Twice songs. Also, Chaeyoung,Sana and Tzuyu in the chorus??? Sana and Tzuyu voices blend so well too! We typically never see Chaeyoung in the chorus, so it's refreshing to see a new voice singing in the chorus! I also like that there are 2 mini rap parts for Chaeyoung. One thing to note is that Nayeon's, Sana's and Mina's falsettos are frickin magnificent. Also, I'm pretty sure everyone got to sing the chorus at least once in this song. The chorus is really catchy to me, and I it, especially the part when Jeongyeon sings the chorus. In terms of song, I would have to rate it a 9/10 because this would probably be my second favourite song out of the album, but I don't think it passes First Time -- that song is way to beautiful man.  
 
### Where Would I Rank This Album? 
A few things to note before I rank the album is even though you may not like the main Twice song, Twice always hits when it comes to their b-sides. So take a chance and listen to their b-sides, they are really good (The Twice b-sides on my playlist are Chillax, Swing, Depend on You, One In a Million, Ice Cream, Queen, Sunset, Trick it, 21:29). Also, I love how all the members created the songs in the album except for the title track, which JYP made it. Furthermore, one thing I noticed was that the member's song showed more love to the members who don't get a lot of lines in the title track -- especially Jeongyeon and Momo. In terms of the whole album and vocals, I would put this album around the middle of Twice's discography. Some albums (not single songs, so cry for me or breakthrough don't count) I would put in front of this album would be (in no particular order): Feel special, Eyes Wide Open (I can't stop me), Summer Nights (Dance The Night Away), Twicecoaster: Lane 2 (Knock Knock), Yes or Yes. As for all the other albums, I would have to look more in-depth on them in order to form an opinion whether or not I have this album above the others. In terms of ratings, I'd give it an 7.5/10. Not the best album, but not the worst album either. 
 

