---
layout: post
title: A State of the Union Address of Sorts
subtitle: Who I am, why I'm here, what I expect the blog to be
excerpt_image: "/assets/images/illusion2023.jpg"
tags: [meta]
---

Well, now that my site’s up and running I guess it’s probably time to start writing some posts! It makes sense to me to write up something quick to explain who I am, how I got here, and what kind of things I want my site to be focused on.

I graduated from Northern Arizona University in 2021 with a bachelor’s degree in applied computer science. What a year to finish college that was! I wish I had a graduation photo to share but I never got to do the cap-and-gown walk like you typically would (which probably saved me and my family members a few hours of boredom anyways, but still a little bit of a bummer). Initially after graduation I thought I’d find myself a role somewhere in the software development world, but after some months of actively job searching with little results I realized I’d have to come up with another plan. I took a job at a restaurant to get the bills paid (and this work was what I did to get myself through college, so it was familiar) and took some time to really think and explore and decide what it was I wanted to fully commit myself to. 

And I think taking that time was really good for me! I figured I’m a young person who knows so little about adult life without at least school to keep me busy, and there’s so much I still have yet to learn. That’s still true, but taking some time to know myself better and get a little more life experience under my belt did a lot for my personal development. Now I’m playing catch-up with the career side, but I feel a lot more equipped to do that now than I did at 21. 

During that time I tinkered around with some things, took some online courses on a few different topics, and now I’ve landed on wanting to get into the more data-oriented side of things. When I first took a class in college centered around SQL I absolutely loved it, but didn’t really think to focus on that on my own time. But here we are!

I intend to keep my blog posts mostly centered on that learning journey (*‘never learn in private’*, my dad always says), but I may include other topics from time to time. Learning for the good of my career is my main focus right now, but I always keep my mind open to learning more about, I don’t know, being an adult in this big world we’re all in. I’m still young and I have a lot to see and do and learn and to me that’s the most exciting thing. So if something else of interest seems worth sharing, I’ll try and put that here too. When I’m not working on tech things I really enjoy traveling, trying new foods, doing craft projects and puzzles, playing the occasional video game, and reading/listening to books or podcasts. It might be kind of nice to have some amount of this next chunk of growing up documented, even if only for my own amusement.

Thanks for reading if you’re here, I’m excited to share more soon! 
